So We have to open "Xcode" Make Sure it's Open For Your Project.
At Which In 'Categories' bar we got allot of Options like
'General', "Signing & Capabilities" and Etc.
But We choose By default open 'General' which contains so many 
options Like 'Supported Destination', 'Minimum Deployments' etc
but we have to focus on 'identity'.

1. In 'Identity' card we have to Upgrade 'Version' name with '+1'
I not increasing build because we went to let xcode handle that
itself but 
"Of course u manually increase Build No."

2. Now We have to 'Archive' Current app For that Go to "Product"
menu placed On "TopBar".
Click on 'Archive' option It takes Few seconds Up to 'minutes'.

3. Then 'Archive' Window open automatically Now in this 
organizer window Click on 'Distribute App' at which we got 
Several Options now we had to go through now we can just
select "test flight" in "App Store" Then click on 'Distribute'
This will now fetch the app record analyze the version.

4. Now Switch to "App Store Connect" Select Your App Click On
Top Left Got "Ios App +(add)" Option.
Got Dialog Of 'New Version' at which u have to assign a version
number Click on "Create" Don't wait For it. 
When it's Uploaded Successfully which means we can click 'done'
And close organizer window.

5. Got Navigated to "iOS App version" window At Which Focus on 
"What's new in this Version" It Should Accurately describe what
U changed With Current Version.

6. Now Scroll Down Up to 'Build' Section But Notice that it's empty
after you uploaded your build Reason is Processing Builds takes time.
We can check it by navigating to "TopCategories' TestFlight" Option
Then U See the List of Versions and now we notice that our new
version has finish processing and we just need to fill out this
Compilance app "Encription documentation".

7. When U click on 'manage' option U got 'App Encryption Documentation'
Dialog So u fill this out and hit save so now that Things filled
out See Status of build is ready to submit so we can go back to the 
"Distribution" tab.

8. So Scroll Down up to 'Build' Section At Which U See "Add Build" 
Options Click on it Then U See List of Builds will get loaded 
So these are all of the builds On Top U see "Our Uploaded Build Version".
Select It and Click "Done" option.

9. Now U See it Uploaded or attached to this version and u can see the 
app icon is also Now Check All things look nice If Yes CLick on 'Saved'
Option on Top And CLick on 'Add for Review' option.
