https://www.linkedin.com/posts/girijesh-paliwal-05454b190_flutter-dart-flutterdevelopment-share-7491847446763991040-sB_0/?utm_source=share&utm_medium=member_desktop&rcm=ACoAAD2mRtgBaOGGFFr6kUtyXb1irShlzaEqbzw

                                 1. FLUTTER APPLICATION STARTUP AND INTERNALS?
Q1) what happens internally when you launch a flutter application?
ans) When i launch a flutter application, the operating system first starts the application process
and the platform specific Flutter embedder is initialized.
The embedder connects the flutter application with the host platform, such as Android or iOS, and 
starts the flutter engine.
The engine initialize things like the dart runtime, rendering system and platform communications.
Then the dart application's 'main()' function executes. Usually, 'main()' calls 'runApp()', which 
attaches the root widget to flutter's widget tree.
FLutter then builds the widget tree, creates the corresponding element and RenderObject trees,
performs layout and painting and finally the engine rasterizes the result into pixels that are 
displayed on the screen.
 # MENTAL FLOW:
 OS -> Flutter Embeddar -> Flutter Engine -> Dart Runtime/Isolate -> main() -> runApp()
 -> Widget Tree -> Element Tree -> Render Object Tree -> Build -> Layout -> Paint ->
 Compositing -> Rasterization -> Pixels.

Q2) Explain the complete Flutter startup flow from OS launch to pixels?
ans) At a high level, the OS launches the flutter application and starts the platform specific
flutter embedder. The Embedder is responsible for integrating flutter with the host 
operating system.
The embedder starts and communicates with the Flutter Engine. The engine initializes the Dart runtime, 
rendering pipeline, and platform services.
Dart starts the application's main isolate and executes 'main()'.
When runApp() is called, Flutter attaches the root widget to the framework. 
The framework creates Elements and RenderObjects as needed.
During a frame, Flutter performs build, layout, paint and compositing. The resulting layer information 
is then sent through the rendering pipeline and rasterized by the engine.
Finally, the rendered pixels are presented through the platform to the display.

Q3) What is flutter embedder?
ans) The Flutter Embedder is the platform-specific layer that integrates the Flutter Engine 
with the operating system.
It handles things such as application lifecycle, window and surface management, input events, 
accessibility, text input, and communication with platform-specific APIs.
For example, on Android, Flutter needs to integrate with Android's activity and surface system. 
The embedder provides that connection between Android and the Flutter Engine.
      # Simple Mental Model:
 Android / iOS -> Flutter Embedder -> Flutter Engine -> Flutter Framework -> Dart
 Application.

Q4) What is the Flutter Engine?
ans) The Flutter Engine is the native core that executes and renders a Flutter application.
It is primarily implemented in C++ and provides functionality such as the Dart runtime, 
rendering, text handling, accessibility integration, platform communication, and scheduling.
In simple terms, the Flutter Framework tells Flutter what UI should exist, while the Engine provides 
the lower-level infrastructure needed to execute that code and render it.

Q5) what is Dart Runtime in flutter?
ans) The Dart runtime is responsible for executing Dart code inside the flutter application.
It manages things such as Dart isolates, memory management, garbage collection, asynchronous 
execution, and interaction with the Dart VM or runtime environment depending on the build mode.
Flutter's UI code runs inside Dart's main isolate.

Q6) What is an Isolate in Dart?
ans) An isolate is Dart's unit of independent execution.
Each isolate has its own memory and its own event loop, so isolates don't directly share 
mutable memory.
They communicate by sending messages between each other.
Flutter uses isolates because expensive CPU-bound work can be moved away from the main 
isolate so that UI processing can continue smoothly.

Q7) Why does Flutter Uses Isolates?
ans) Flutter's Ui work is handled by the main isolates. if i perform heavy CPU intensive 
work there, it can block the event loop and prevent Flutter from processing frames on time,
which can cause junk.
So for expensive CPU-bound operations, I can move the work to another isolate. The main isolate 
remains available for UI-related work.

Q8) What happens when 'main()' executes?
ans) 'main()' is the entry point of the Dart application.
When Flutter starts the Dart application, the main isolate begins executing 'main()'.
Typically, 'main()' performs some initial synchronous setup and then calls 'runApp()' with the root widget.
After that, Flutter takes responsibility for attaching and rendering the application UI.
Example: void main() {  runApp(const MyApp());  }

Q9) What exactly does runApp() do internally?
ans) 'runApp()' attaches the given widget to the Flutter framework as the root of 
the application.
Internally, Flutter creates or updates the root element and schedules the framework to 
build and render the widget tree.
It doesn't directly draw the widget on the screen. Instead, it starts the framework's 
process of creating the element and render trees, followed by layout and painting.
     #IMPORTANT:
Don't say: "runApp() draws the UI".
Better: "runApp() attaches the root widget and starts the framework's rendering process."

Q10) What happens when you call runApp() for the first time?
ans) Flutter attaches the root widget to the framework. The framework creates the root 
Element and begins building the widget hierarchy.
As widgets are inflated, corresponding Elements are created, and RenderObjects are 
created for widgets that participate in rendering.
Flutter then performs layout and painting and eventually produces the first frame.

Q11) How does flutter convert widgets into actual pixels?
ans) Widgets themeselves aren't pixels. Widgets are immutable descriptions of what UI 
should look like.
Flutter uses those widget descriptions to create and update the Element tree. RenderObjects 
then perform layout and painting.
The painting information is represented through Flutter's layer/compositing system, and the 
engine's rasterization pipeline converts the resulting scene into pixels that are displayed 
on the screen.
       -------------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                 2. WIDGET -> ELEMENT -> RENDEROBJECT
Q12) What is the difference between Widget, Element and RenderObject?
ans) A Widget is an immutable configuration or description of part of the UI.
An Element is the persistent instance of a widget in the widget tree and manages 
   the relationship between the widget configuration and the actual tree structure.
A RenderObject is responsible for the actual rendering-related work such as layout 
   and painting.
So i think of it as:
    Widget = configuration
    Element = persistent connection
    RenderObject = layout and painting
Easy Example: Widget -> Element -> Render Object. 

Q13) Why does Flutter need three different trees?
ans) They solve different problems:
*Widgets are lightweight immutable configurations and can be recreated frequently.
*Elements provide persistent identity and manage the widget hierarchy across rebuilds.
*RenderObjects handle expensive rendering operations like layout and painting.
Separating them allows Flutter to rebuild widget configurations without unnecessarily 
recreating the more expensive parts of the rendering tree.

Q14) What happens when a widget rebuilds?
ans) When a widget rebuilds, Flutter creates a new widget configuration for that part of the tree.
Flutter then compares the new widget with the existing widget associated with the Element.
If they can be updated in place, Flutter reuses the existing Element and usually the existing RenderObject.
Only the necessary parts of the tree are updated.

Q15) Does rebuilding a widget recreate its RenderObject?
ans) No, not necessarily.
A rebuild mainly creates new widget configurations. If Flutter can reuse the 
existing Element, the existing RenderObject can usually also be reused.
That's one of the important performance benefits of Flutter's architecture.

Q16) What is the role of Element tree?
ans) The Element tree acts as the persistent structure between the frequently recreated 
widget configurations and the longer-lived render objects.
Elements maintain things like widget identity, parent-child relationships, lifecycle state,
and references to associated render objects.
They also allow Flutter to determine which existing parts of the tree can be reused during 
rebuilds.

Q17) How does Flutter determine whether an existing Element can be reused?
ans) Flutter primarily looks at the widget's type and key.
If the new widget has the same type and compatible key as the existing widget at that 
location, Flutter can generally update and reuse the existing Element.
If the type or key doesn't match appropriately, Flutter may replace that Element with 
a new one.
                 Important phrase:
Type + Key determine identity during reconciliation.

Q18) How do keys affect the element tree?
ans) Keys provide identity to widget.
They become especially important when widgets are reordered, inserted, or removed, 
because Flutter can use the keys to match new widgets with the correct existing Elements.
Without appropriate keys, Flutter may associate state with the wrong item after a reorder.
Example:
ListView(  children: [    UserTile(key: ValueKey(user.id)),  ], )

Q19) What happens internally when setState() is called?
ans) When I call setState(), Flutter executes the callback where I modify the 
state and then marks the associated State object as needing a rebuild.
Flutter schedules the corresponding Element for rebuilding.
During the next frame, Flutter rebuilds that part of the widget tree.
Flutter then reconciles the new widgets with the existing Elements and updates 
only the necessary parts of the tree.
            Very important:
Don't say: "setState() rebuilds the entire app."
Say: "setState() marks the associated State's Element as needing rebuild."
   ----------------------------------------------------------------------------------
                      3. RENDERING PIPELINE:
Q20) Explain Flutter's rendering pipeline.
ans) At a high level, Flutter's rendering pipeline goes through build, layout, paint, 
compositing and rasterization.
During build, Flutter creates or updates the widget and element structure.
During layout, RenderObjects determine their sizes and positions based on constraints.
During paint, RenderObjects record the visual operations needed to draw themselves.
During compositing, Flutter organizes the painted content into layers when needed.
